Let's continue with our sign up flow.
So we need to take the email and password out of the body.
The requests, those have now been validated.
So we're going to then run a query on our collection of users inside of our MongoDB database.
We're going to try to find a user with that same email.
Okay.
So I'm going to flip back over to my sign in root handler because we want to run a query.
We need to import the user model at the very top of the file.
So up here at the top, I'm going to import user from up one directory models user.
I'll then go back down to my root handler.
You're going to run a query inside of here, which means we're definitely going to be making use of
that async await syntax.
So I'm going to mark the enclosing function as async.
And then going to pull the email and the password out of the body of the request.
I'll then run a query and try to find some user inside of our database with this email.
They'll do existing user is a weight user.
Find one and I'll try to look at that email.
So then we can immediately do a quick check.
If there is no existing user, if we fail to find one, then we want to throw in air immediately and
bail out of everything inside this request handler.
So this would be another good scenario, another good place to make use of that very generic custom
air we had put together called bad request air.
You might think that this would be a scenario to throw a kind of four, four or something like user
not found or something like that.
But remember, whenever we are handling validation or semi authentication, whenever dealing with authentication,
we usually prefer to share as much or as little information as possible.
I got all those words opposite.
We want to share as little information about why things go poorly during failed authentication attempts,
because the more information we give to someone, it might be information we are providing to a malicious
user.
So if someone tries to sign up or sign in with an email that doesn't exist, we don't want to tell them
that that email doesn't exist.
We just want to say Sorry, but you provided us some bad login credentials.
Or we can just say login request failed, something like that.
So that's why you're going to use that very generic custom error of bad request error.
At the very top.
I'm going to import that air.
That request air.
From Ayers.
Bad request here.
And I'll make sure that I throw that down inside the if statement.
So throw knew bad request air and remember we can optionally provide a reason for the error.
So I'm just going to give a very simple, very direct message that's very generic in nature.
I'll just say invalid credentials to say sorry but failed.
All right, so if we make it past that check, the next thing we have to do.
Look in our diagram, we need to store the password that was supplied inside the request with the hash
password of the stored user.
And remember, we already put together a nice little class to take care of this stuff for us.
So back inside of our services directory, we've got that password file.
So here's the class we put together and we've got that compare method.
We're going to call it Compare.
The first argument is going to be the stored password off the user that we just fetched.
And the second argument will be the supplied password.
So the one that was given to us inside the request.
So back inside of S.A.T.s at the very top, let's import password.
And you know, I really regret the name of this class.
It really should have been something like Password Manager or something similar, but we're in pretty
deep at this point, so we're going to stick with that.
I'm going to get that from the services directory.
Password.
All right.
After we have that statement, we're going to compare those two passwords.
And remember, the compare passwords method is going to return a Boolean.
So we'll do passwords match.
So that's going to be a true or false and then end a wait because comparing the passwords is asynchronous.
Password Dot.
Compare.
Our first argument is going to be and if we forget, as I just did, hover over that thing.
All right.
First one is the stored password off the existing user.
And the second argument is the password that came in the request.
So I'm going to pass an existing user password.
And then password.
Okay.
That looks good.
So now passwords match is going to be a boolean.
If it is false, that means, well, we got some invalid credentials.
And so once again, we'll probably want to throw another error just like that right there.
So if not, passwords match, that is false.
Then throw a new bad request.
Ere invalid.
Credentials.
And then finally, if we get past that statement right there, last thing we have to do.
Our user is now logged in, so we need to once again generate a JSON web token and send it back inside
of the cookie.
That's going to essentially be the exact same logic we've just put together inside of sign up a moment
ago.
If we go back over to our sign up route handler, we've got where we generated the JSON web token and
then we start it on that session object and sent the response back rather than rewriting all this code.
Let's just do a simple copy paste.
This course is already getting a little bit long, so we're going to do as much copy pasting or reuse
this code as we reasonably can.
So I'm going to paste inside of sign in.
Our step to generate the JSON web token.
We're going to assign that to the session object.
And then we're going to send back our response.
However, when we send back the response, we are no longer creating a new record inside of our database.
So traditionally we would send back a 200.
In addition, right now we are sending back a user variable that does not exist inside this file.
So we need to rename a user throughout here over to existing user because that's what we assigned that
variable or the result of that query to.
So I'm going to find number one right there and change it to existing user.
Number two.
And then down here, number three.
Looks good.
Another very final step.
Let's make sure that we import the JSON Web token library into this file.
So we'll go up to the top.
Add in an import for JSON Web token from JSON Web token.
And that should be it for sign in.
Well, this video was just a little bit long.
So let's take a pause right here and we'll test this thing out in just a moment.